# Seasonal dynamics and factors shaping microbiomes in freshwater finfish earthen aquaculture ponds in Bangladesh
Sanjit C. Debnath, Dominique L. Chaput, Jamie McMurtrie, Ashley Bell, Ben Temperton, Chadag V. Mohan, Md. M. Alam, Neaz. A. Hasan, Mohammad. M. Haque, David Bass, Charles R. Tyler

# Abstract 
Background: The pondwater microbiome is believed to play a key role in fish health, including shaping mucosal surface microbiomes that help to protect against disease. How different physiochemical features relating to season, geographical locations, as well as crop species shape the pond water microbiome in the finfish aquaculture system is not well established. Pangasius (Pangasianodon hypophthalmus) and tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) are some of the most widely farmed fish species and disease is a major impediment to the expansion of their production. We applied 16S and 18S metabarcoding to assess how pond physicochemistry and geographical location shape microbiomes in pangasius and tilapia aquaculture earthen ponds in Bangladesh.
Result: Planctomycetota, Proteobacteria and Actinobacteriota were the dominant bacterial phyla while Stramenopiles and Alveolata were the dominant microeukaryotes (divisions) in the pangasius and tilapia ponds. The relative abundance of Planctomycetota was higher in the pangasius ponds compared with tilapia ponds, and Actinobacteriota, and Proteobacteria were relatively higher in tilapia ponds. Tilapia pond water also exhibited a higher microbial diversity compared to that in pangasius ponds. The pondwater microbial diversity was at its lowest in winter (and/or in monsoon) and highest in the pre-monsoon period. The microbial community structures differed across the different seasons, geographical locations, culture systems, and crop species, with season and geographical locations showing the strongest effects. Of the water physicochemistry features assessed, temperature and pH were found to have a weak but significant effect on the water microbiome content for both pangasius and tilapia ponds. Algal blooms also had a significant effect on the water microbiome in the pangasius ponds. Pangasius and tilapia ponds shared over 46% of ASVs, and around 30% of ASVs were shared across the different study geographical locations.
Conclusion: Our findings demonstrate that microbial communities in the pangasius and tilapia aquaculture systems in Bangladesh are shaped by season, geographical location, crop species, as well as effects from water physicochemistry. Our results provide insights into the dynamic nature and environmental influences on water microbiomes that may be applied for use in pond management for improving aquaculture productivity and enhancement of overall fish health. 

# Funding
This work was funded by the BBSRC/Newton Fund project (BB/N00504X/1). SCD was supported by University of Exeter with partners Cefas and the CGIAR Research Program on Fish Agri-Food Systems (FISH) led by WorldFish. Sequencing was performed at the Exeter Sequencing Service, using equipment funded by the Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund (WT097835MF), Wellcome Trust Multi-User Equipment Award (WT101650MA) and BBSRC LOLA award (BB/K003240/1). 

# How to regenerate this repository
The 16S and 18S sequencing raw data were deposited in the European Nucleotide Archive (ENA) under BioProject accession number PRJEB82362. The raw reads, final ASV tables, and phyloseq object will be made publicly available upon publication of this work. 
